---
title: Airflow wow TIL
date: 2024-02-08
draft: false
tags:
  - shopback-diaries
---
A discussion happened on:
* how to run airflow task only once
* how to run task under certains conditions, eg: (1) every second Saturday of the month, (2) only during 2nd DAG run of the day, etc.

https://medium.com/@plieningerweb/use-apache-airflow-to-run-task-exactly-once-6fb70ca5e7ec

-------------------

Revisiting this exactly 1 year later on 2024-02-08. The writing habit didn't last lmao.

Anyways, since I recently did something on running airflow, might as well write it down here.

Airflow has a few very useful features:

### 1. Serialized DAG
This is the "compiled" version of the PY DAG scripts. It is in JSON format and we can extract DAG info easily. Currently I am using it to collect all the dbt jobs and models running on airflow.
https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/administration-and-deployment/dag-serialization.html

### 2. "Special" operators
Personally I have used 2 of such operators: `ShortCircuitOperator` and `BranchPythonOperator`. Both of them share a common feature where you can customize your DAG flow via Python functions. If you don't know about this, go read up on them.

### 3. Trigger rule
Different conditions that decides if the downstream should start running. The most common idea we have is "if all upstream completes successfully, begin downstream" - this is one of the rules called "All Success". There's alot other very funky rules.

### 4. "Context" variable
A "task run" is the small unit of operation in Airflow. In the DAG defining these tasks, we might wanna write functions like "if this is the last day of the month, run an extra task to snapshot Table X". How do we write our DAG script such that it knows how to grab the "Context" of the DAG/Task run? - such as "task name", "DAG id", "execution date", etc
- "context" can only be referenced as a variable passed into operators. I dont have details on how it works either.
https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/templates-ref.html
https://docs.astronomer.io/learn/airflow-context

### 5. XCom
Airflow tasks can communicate with each other via variables called `XCom`s.
https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/core-concepts/xcoms.html